[Music]
hey how's it going Dave QD here so a
little while ago Nvidia announced max Q
which was the new design approach to
building laptops that would keep them
thin and light and quiet and on paper it
seemed almost too good to be true
because these were GTX 1080s in a laptop
that was 19 millimeters thick and we're
running at 40 decibels which is
incredibly quiet and one of the ways
they achieve this was through reduced
wattage to the GPU the more power you
give to a GPU the better performance but
it hits this point of diminishing
returns and once you hit that sweet spot
the extra waters that you feed it
doesn't get used efficiently so Nvidia
caps the power consumption right at that
point now you get reduced performance
right you can't tap into that last 15
percent or whatever but you use way less
energy and you get better thermals so my
initial reaction was hey that's kind of
cool but there were a lot of enthusiasts
that were like hmm is nvidia trying to
pull a scam on us because these could
just be under clouds GPUs and just
relabeled as this whole max-q
certification thing and I understand
where the concern comes from because
these are not cheap gaming laptops these
are two or three thousand dollars a pop
and at that price point you want to make
sure that you're doing the right thing
with your money so that's what this
video explores are these max-q laptops
can in front of me are three fairly
different max-q laptops the acc Zephyrus
the ARS x5 md and an alienware 15 max q
and these all have gtx 1080s inside them
and they're all max Q design laptops the
ARS x5 MD is running some very early
software but whatever so all three of
these are very strong performers in
firestrike they score less than a
regular laptop with a gtx 1080 but
better than a laptop with a regular gtx
1070 and the variants you see between
these three max q laptops is mostly a
difference in just the clock speeds of
the GPUs okay when you look at this
graph you might notice how close these
three max Q laptops are to the GTX 970
laptop we're talking like a seven to ten
percent difference and some gtx 1070
laptops can be overclocked and those
will actually outperform these alien
were put up a video showcasing how their
gtx 1070 laptop could be overclocked and
could actually outperform at a cheaper
price their gtx 1080
max q laptop and so the question pops up
why is nvidia pushing these max q
laptops when you can get a GTX 10-7
that has very similar performance or
even better performance if you overclock
it and the problem is actually that some
companies don't take full advantage of
the whole max-q design approach so if
you look at a lien where they put a lot
of effort into the designs and they're
made really well they bring out new
laptop designs every three or four years
they're not going to design a whole new
chassis just for some max-q stuff on the
other hand a company like Asus they put
out new laptop and PC designs every year
so for them they can put out a brand new
ultra thin maxi laptop right away they
can take full advantage of the max-q
design because that's just how the
company rolls so back to the alien or 15
they're running their GPU the max-q
GTX 1080 at 110 watts which is the
highest level you can run it at for a
max Q design laptop and they're able to
push their GPU hard like this because
this chassis was designed to handle then
overclocked gtx 1070 it's got a ton of
thermal Headroom so is this laptop still
good I mean yeah it's designed well it's
built well and it's very powerful but
it's not impressive to me this is the
same chassis as was in their regular
ngon max-q laptop and honestly I love
Alienware I think they make some of the
best laptops in the market but this
feels like a me-too product like we
looked at everyone else making max-q
laptops and I thought hey we should make
one too but they just didn't put it into
a new chassis so you're stuck with this
so when people look at this product max
Q does not look like a compelling thing
it's just why would you buy this gimped
GTX 1080p version when you can buy the
cheaper gtx 1070 version that performs
just as well if not better and then you
take a look at the opposite end of the
spectrum the asus f-first this thing was
built specifically for max q design it's
not as durable as an Alienware laptop
but it's still really well-made it's
thin it's light and the fans are
incredibly quiet it's not a traditional
look the keyboard down the trackpad is
on the right and things are a little
weird when you first use it but to me
this is impressive this is a thin and
powerful laptop that is super quiet and
I kind of want to touch on the whole
thing about fan noise decibels are a
logarithmic unit right so an increase in
10 decibels is double the perceived
volume so if you're starting at 40
decibels if you hit 50 decibels that's
double the volume and then if you hit 60
decibels that's double the volume again
so gaming laptops can easily hit 50
Souls unload if you have a gtx 1070 or
1080 in there they can sometimes hit 60
decibels this thing has a max Q 1080 in
there and hit 39 decibels when you're
playing games so yeah you can get a 1070
laptop that has very similar performance
to this but it's going to be so much
louder I also want to talk about this
thing the aorist x5 SMD they didn't
change the chassis it's their regular x5
chassis not super thin but to me max Q
is perfect for this laptop it still has
great performance with the GTX 1080 and
the max Q design keeps it quiet stays
really close to 40 decibels when it's
gaming and has a ton of expandability
there's 4 drives in there max Q design
allowed this really great laptop to get
even better three months ago the
thinnest laptop with a GTX 1080 was this
thing - Razer Blade Pro and everybody
down plot their GPU a little bit just to
kind of keep the thermals in check it's
a very good performing laptop but it's
super loud 60 decibels when it's under
load now there's nothing wrong with this
device I mean it's a very powerful
machine but if all you think they're
doing is down clocking their GPUs to
kind of make max Q laptops that's not
the case there's just so much more going
on like the hardware the software it's
all combining together to be able to
make something this then this light and
this quiet
so in conclusion no I don't think masks
use a scam it's not a new GPU and like
the technology isn't like the super
crazy but they're combining something
that's in the software component and a
hardware component to make something
that you know is really impressive as
long as you're doing it right now the
other thing to keep in mind is nvidia
isn't forcing you to buy these max-q
things the regular GTX laptop still
exists if you want to buy those things I
have little more power and a little more
fan noise you're more than welcome to
you don't have to buy these but for
people that want to spend a little more
money to get something that's like a
little more elegant you have that option
as well